README.md, before:

# What is it?

Git-Auto-Deploy consists of a small HTTP server that listens for Web hook requests sent from GitHub, GitLab or Bitbucket servers. This application allows you to continuously and automatically deploy you projects each time you push new commits to your repository.</p>

![workflow](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1056476/9344294/d3bc32a4-4607-11e5-9a44-5cd9b22e61d9.png)

# How does it work?

When commits are pushed to your Git repository, the Git server will notify ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` by sending a HTTP POST request with a JSON body to a pre configured URL (your-host:8001). The JSON body contains detailed information about the repository and what event that triggered the request. ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` parses and validates the request, and if all goes well it issues a ```git pull```.

Additionally, ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` can be configured to execute a shell command upon each successful ```git pull```, which can be used to trigger custom build actions or test scripts.</p>

# Getting started

You can install ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` in multiple ways. Below are instructions for the most common methods.

## Install from repository (recommended)

When installing ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` from the repository, you'll need to make sure that Python (tested on version 2.7) and Git (tested on version 2.5.0) is installed on your system.

Clone the repository.

    git clone https://github.com/olipo186/Git-Auto-Deploy.git

Copy of the sample config and modify it. [Read more about the configuration options](./docs/Configuration.md). Make sure that ```pidfilepath``` is writable for the user running the script, as well as all paths configured for your repositories.

    cd Git-Auto-Deploy
    cp config.json.sample config.json

Start ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` manually using;

    python gitautodeploy --config config.json

To start ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` automatically on boot, open crontab in edit mode using ```crontab -e``` and add the entry below.

    @reboot /usr/bin/python /path/to/Git-Auto-Deploy/gitautodeploy --daemon-mode --quiet --config /path/to/git-auto-deploy.conf.json

You can also configure ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` to start on boot using a init.d-script (for Debian and Sys-V like init systems) or a service for systemd. [Read more about starting Git-Auto-Deploy automatically using init.d or systemd](./docs/Start automatically on boot.md).

## Install from PPA (recommended for debian systems)

Add our PPA repository.

    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:olipo186/git-auto-deploy
    sudo apt-get update

Install ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` using apt.

    sudo apt-get install git-auto-deploy

Modify the configuration file to match your project setup. [Read more about the configuration options](./docs/Configuration.md).

    nano /etc/git-auto-deploy.conf.json

Start ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` and check it's status.

    service git-auto-deploy start
    service git-auto-deploy status

## Alternative installation methods

* [Install as a python module (experimental)](./docs/Install as a python module.md)
* [Install as a debian package (experimental)](./docs/Install as a debian package.md)
* [Start automatically on boot (init.d and systemd)](./docs/Start automatically on boot.md)

## Command line options

Below is a summarized list of the most common command line options. For a full list of available command line options, invoke the application with the argument ```--help``` or read the documentation article about [all avaialble command line options, environment variables and config attributes](./docs/Configuration.md).

Command line option    | Environment variable | Config attribute | Description
---------------------- | -------------------- | ---------------- | --------------------------
--daemon-mode (-d)     | GAD_DAEMON_MODE      |                  | Run in background (daemon mode)
--quiet (-q)           | GAD_QUIET            |                  | Supress console output
--config (-c) <path>   | GAD_CONFIG           |                  | Custom configuration file
--pid-file <path>      | GAD_PID_FILE         | pidfilepath      | Specify a custom pid file
--log-file <path>      | GAD_LOG_FILE         | logfilepath      | Specify a log file
--host <host>          | GAD_HOST             | host             | Address to bind to
--port <port>          | GAD_PORT             | port             | Port to bind to

## Getting webhooks from git
To make your git provider send notifications to ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` you will need to provide the hostname and port for your ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` instance. Instructions for the most common git providers is listed below.

**GitHub**
1. Go to your repository -> Settings -> Webhooks and Services -> Add webhook</li>
2. In "Payload URL", enter your hostname and port (your-host:8001)
3. Hit "Add webhook"

**GitLab**
1. Go to your repository -> Settings -> Web hooks
2. In "URL", enter your hostname and port (your-host:8001)
3. Hit "Add Web Hook"

**Bitbucket**
1. Go to your repository -> Settings -> Webhooks -> Add webhook
2. In "URL", enter your hostname and port (your-host:8001)
3. Hit "Save"

# More documentation

[Have a look in the *docs* directory](./docs), where you'll find more detailed documentation on configurations, alternative installation methods and example workflows.

Commit message:

not changes from root repo
several changes to config files had to be made to fully support not using /var/log and /var/run as the root user. Config set to auto-deploy through ssh using deploy keys for good security.

README.md, after:

# Mods to root repo

 - runs as a user instead of root
 - allows the pid to be saved in /usr/local/git-auto-deploy
 - config setup to use github ssh deployment and deploy keys for good security

# What is it?

Git-Auto-Deploy consists of a small HTTP server that listens for Web hook requests sent from GitHub, GitLab or Bitbucket servers. This application allows you to continuously and automatically deploy you projects each time you push new commits to your repository.</p>

![workflow](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1056476/9344294/d3bc32a4-4607-11e5-9a44-5cd9b22e61d9.png)

# How does it work?

When commits are pushed to your Git repository, the Git server will notify ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` by sending a HTTP POST request with a JSON body to a pre configured URL (your-host:8001). The JSON body contains detailed information about the repository and what event that triggered the request. ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` parses and validates the request, and if all goes well it issues a ```git pull```.

Additionally, ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` can be configured to execute a shell command upon each successful ```git pull```, which can be used to trigger custom build actions or test scripts.</p>

# Getting started

You can install ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` in multiple ways. Below are instructions for the most common methods.

## Install from repository (recommended)

When installing ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` from the repository, you'll need to make sure that Python (tested on version 2.7) and Git (tested on version 2.5.0) is installed on your system.

Clone the repository.

    git clone https://github.com/olipo186/Git-Auto-Deploy.git

Copy of the sample config and modify it. [Read more about the configuration options](./docs/Configuration.md). Make sure that ```pidfilepath``` is writable for the user running the script, as well as all paths configured for your repositories.

    cd Git-Auto-Deploy
    cp config.json.sample config.json

Start ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` manually using;

    python gitautodeploy --config config.json

To start ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` automatically on boot, open crontab in edit mode using ```crontab -e``` and add the entry below.

    @reboot /usr/bin/python /path/to/Git-Auto-Deploy/gitautodeploy --daemon-mode --quiet --config /path/to/git-auto-deploy.conf.json

You can also configure ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` to start on boot using a init.d-script (for Debian and Sys-V like init systems) or a service for systemd. [Read more about starting Git-Auto-Deploy automatically using init.d or systemd](./docs/Start automatically on boot.md).

## Install from PPA (recommended for debian systems)

Add our PPA repository.

    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:olipo186/git-auto-deploy
    sudo apt-get update

Install ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` using apt.

    sudo apt-get install git-auto-deploy

Modify the configuration file to match your project setup. [Read more about the configuration options](./docs/Configuration.md).

    nano /etc/git-auto-deploy.conf.json

Start ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` and check it's status.

    service git-auto-deploy start
    service git-auto-deploy status

## Alternative installation methods

* [Install as a python module (experimental)](./docs/Install as a python module.md)
* [Install as a debian package (experimental)](./docs/Install as a debian package.md)
* [Start automatically on boot (init.d and systemd)](./docs/Start automatically on boot.md)

## Command line options

Below is a summarized list of the most common command line options. For a full list of available command line options, invoke the application with the argument ```--help``` or read the documentation article about [all avaialble command line options, environment variables and config attributes](./docs/Configuration.md).

Command line option    | Environment variable | Config attribute | Description
---------------------- | -------------------- | ---------------- | --------------------------
--daemon-mode (-d)     | GAD_DAEMON_MODE      |                  | Run in background (daemon mode)
--quiet (-q)           | GAD_QUIET            |                  | Supress console output
--config (-c) <path>   | GAD_CONFIG           |                  | Custom configuration file
--pid-file <path>      | GAD_PID_FILE         | pidfilepath      | Specify a custom pid file
--log-file <path>      | GAD_LOG_FILE         | logfilepath      | Specify a log file
--host <host>          | GAD_HOST             | host             | Address to bind to
--port <port>          | GAD_PORT             | port             | Port to bind to

## Getting webhooks from git
To make your git provider send notifications to ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` you will need to provide the hostname and port for your ```Git-Auto-Deploy``` instance. Instructions for the most common git providers is listed below.

**GitHub**
1. Go to your repository -> Settings -> Webhooks and Services -> Add webhook</li>
2. In "Payload URL", enter your hostname and port (your-host:8001)
3. Hit "Add webhook"

**GitLab**
1. Go to your repository -> Settings -> Web hooks
2. In "URL", enter your hostname and port (your-host:8001)
3. Hit "Add Web Hook"

**Bitbucket**
1. Go to your repository -> Settings -> Webhooks -> Add webhook
2. In "URL", enter your hostname and port (your-host:8001)
3. Hit "Save"

# More documentation

[Have a look in the *docs* directory](./docs), where you'll find more detailed documentation on configurations, alternative installation methods and example workflows.
